Hello and welcome back to the course and blotchy and today I've got a very interesting topic Bitcoins
monetary policy just as central banks of governments have their own monetary policies being a financial
system of its own kind.
Bitcoin also has a monetary policy.
So let's have a look.
Bitcoins monetary policy consist of two main parts a principle called the having and block frequence.
And we'll have a look at both.
So the hobbit What is it all about.
Well what's this principle states is that the number of bitcoins released into the system is covered
every single four years.
So it's actually not just for years it's two hundred and ten thousand blocks.
So you can see here that every 10000 blocks the number of bitcoins per block is reduced by two.
So by like twice by two x.
So at the start it was 50 cents per block from 2012 from November 2012.
25 because per block.
But and you can see that happen that Glocken number children ten thousand four hundred twenty thousand.
It was reduced to 12 and a half because per block around 2020 it'll be six point twenty five because
we're broke and 2024 will be 3.5.
And we continue having every child written down and looks about or about every four years.
And the important thing to note here is that the monetary policy of course is entirely controlled controlled
by its software and tried entirely under the control of the algorithm that is in bitcoins not somebody
going out there and say OK we're going to change the number of bitcoins released this year to this amount.
No it's just all preprogrammed into the software.
It's done like that.
And as you'll see for the dollar and actually in the tutorial about mining and distending mining difficult
to we'll have a discussion about how this is actually very effective.
How effective the policy is how is able to keep things under control inflation control things like that
so let's look a little bit about it today and we'll talk more about that.
So this is the principle that's basically controls as we know because there are at least two of every
block every single time there's a block created because there really well this controls a quantity of
because Beulah's And if we charted out you will see that Bitcoin's This is the Javie principle in blue.
So on the right is the reward and you can see that it drops 50 even coins to 25 to twelve point five
it will keep reducing like that until like approximating to zero.
Then on the other hand you have the number of because the supply so you can see how many bitcoins are
going into the system.
So there's 210 foreign trainees every every square here is about 40 years.
If you if you think of it that way you can see that the number of bitcoins is increasing.
And because of the hobby principle.
So if you take it like if you take if you take 50 plus 25 plus 12 and a half plus and so on.
And of course you multiply it by the number of number of Laux inside this period of four years.
But in general you see because it's having It's approximate So it's basically an exponential chart as
well.
And it has an asymptotic value so it go it will not just keep increasing forever it will it will converge
to a certain amount and in fact simply because there is a limitation in the accuracy of how like you
know how much you can divide a single bitcoin by because of that limitation that the final the final
block or block the final bit coins that will be released as a block reward ever will happen in 2140
at 21.
So theoretically it could keep having until infinity but because there is a certain number of decimal
points after the comma that's off to the decimal that a bitcoin can handle the final blog will be really
the final block reward the final Bitcoins released for the sister in this matter will be installed 140
and the total number of bitcoins in circulation ever will be 21 million.
And yeah.
So we actually there's an interesting chart let me let me have a look.
What we want to talk about now.
Oh actually.
First I wanted to mention this is a different chart.
So here you can see the same yellow line is also how many of the red line is the block reward as you
can see it's is being hard every four years is going down.
But this yellow chart now doesn't represent the total number of bitcoins in circulation.
It is the transaction fees because from here you might ask the question you know well if we're getting
if we're getting if miners are getting less and less and less reward of time you know after some time
once it gets like below one Vicodin per minute Glock what's the point of mining the whole system collapse.
Well the hopes are that it would collapse because the fees should increase because as time passes more
and more people will adopt Bitcoin and more and more people will be using bitcoin and therefore more
transactions will be required to be processed and therefore minors will be getting more fees and B and
people will be paying more higher fees for their transactions to go through because of the because there
will be more demand for for transactions to go through basically.
There's a limit to how much money Tommyknockers actions can go through and they'll be like it will be
a competitive market.
So if you want a transaction to go through you'll pay more fees and therefore the fees will go up and
minors will be compensated not just the Iranian Oil Company.
They are already compensated not just by the block reward they're also getting the fees but because
the fees will go up that will compensate for the fact that the bloke who warned has gone down.
And so it is hoped that the total mining incentive will stay here.
But this yellow line is totally up to how the market plays out how this whole system plays out and the
adoption rate of the court and the other thing I wanted to show you is this chart over here where we've
got monetary inflation.
So once again this blue line this time it's once again the total number of bitcoins in circulation.
So it's not these bitcoins in circulation.
We're back to that and this line that drops over here is the inflation and inflation is basically there's
a formula for inflation here Coinbase.
That's how much money is being released.
So that's some of 50 $25 have tons of sportier.
Divide by existing points.
But in essence what's inflation as we know it is like how prices increase in in a certain currency you
know like if you have a bottle of milk was a dollar then becomes two dollars.
That's because of inflation.
Well in bitcoin.
Actually what you see is overtime.
There is deflation.
This factor is decreasing and that's because more supply is limited and it's less and less blocks have
been released and released into the system.
So Bitcoin is a deflationary type of currency.
Very interesting.
OK.
So having principle and now there's talk about block frequency so low frequencies How often do those
blogs come in that Graig the reward which is right now.
And a half Bitcoin's per block.
How often do they come in.
Well depending on the cryptocurrency they are different.
For instance in Bitcoin it's 10 every 10 minutes.
And in theory it's every 15 seconds in Ripl it's every three and a half seconds and like coin every
two and a half minutes.
So it really depends on the design of the system.
And now let's have a look at an example.
Look at this live life example so this is a Web site that we're going to be going to very often is called
block chain dot com or blotching don't I think the same Web site you'll see will just jump over that
are now.
So if I go to data here at the top you see box into an inferno.
And we'll be dealing with data charts.
That's those are going to be our predominant tabs and we're going to go into.
And this is where you can find all of the information log chain.
You can see the latest blogs that the latest blog was mine five minutes ago.
The one before that 22 minutes ago.
Twenty five and so on.
You got you have some stats very very useful.
So lots of wonderful information here so I highly recommend checking it out and just browsing through
it in your own time and plus we'll definitely learn a lot of things from here during this at least this
module of the course.
And so over you're going to hear see more and you'll see the most recent blogs you can see the time
when they were mine.
You can see this one was mine at 2 to 3.
This one 1:46 So what's the difference in time here.
It's 17 minutes.
So here it's three minutes.
Here it's another three minutes here it's 11 minutes.
Here is what is this 11 minutes as well.
So if you take these times and you take the average because again it's a cryptographic puzzle.
That is the goal.
If so basically it can it can vary.
You can flush it up and down.
But if you take the average it should work out to be 10 minutes and we'll see exactly how this is controlled
in the system further down in this module of course you're on the sands covered together why it's actually
10 minutes how that is maintained.
And so you can click on any block and you can explore if you like.
And that brings us to the end of this to today's tutorial.
I wanted to see just an interesting article if you'd like to do some additional reading.
I found this interesting article by Mark Jeff savage and cool.
It's about all this time is different part to what Bitcoin really is and it's actually about how long
is it 15 minutes or so.
It's a longer than average but it about the we talked about inflation deflation monetary policy and
you know like for example here we've got what is this monetary base in billions of dollars.
How many how many billions of dollars they are there in circulation as far as I understand.
But you can see right here is huge.
He's advocating that the central banks can just do whatever they want they can release money whenever
they like but in Bitcoin it's all part of the system part of a very very smart system very well thought
through system.
So very interesting article lots of thought provoking ideas here that will contrast crypto currencies
to normal currencies and I highly recommend checking it out for an interesting read.
And on that note I hope you enjoyed today's Torro.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then good chance.